  Version control systems are needed in coding at all levels and there are a number of ways this can be done.  The differences between GitHub and saving files with different names, referred to as “file saving version control” going forwards, will be analysed. 

  Using File saving version control needs no additional software and all users are familiar with this concept whereas when using GitHub, it requires the user to learn how this works and gain experience in doing so. Other colleagues, such as managers, may not be able to access the work if they are not familiar with the system being used making it difficult to monitor progress. However, this drawback can be overcome with some basic training and descriptive notes on the system for any new users. Inversely, by using an industry standard tool rather than creating your own way of maintaining version controls makes it more likely that all developers have access to and are familiar with the tool irrespective of where they are based or their background.

  The use of file saving version control is limited to single or small teams of developers as its simplistic nature means that changes cannot be tracked and merged easily and this is a key issue when projects are scaled up. When this occurs, a version control system such as GitHub is a better choice due to the functionality it provides. GitHub allows for multiple programmers to make changes to code, which then are kept separate until merged, and any conflicts would be highlighted for the owner of the code to review and decide which to accept. Allowing the owner of the project complete control over what ends up in the final iteration. This would be much more difficult if each developer took an individual copy of the code and made changes in different programs as to put it together again would result in a large amount of manual intervention and  a high risk of error as such this would not be a practical or feasible way of working.

  Another key feature of GitHub is that it allows you to undo your changes. This is extremely important as fully working and tested code may be corrupted by an attempt to enhance it or the following code may not work as expected. Being able to rewind to the last fully tested and working section would save the developer time as they would not have to try to unpick the changes made and would be confident the code before this point was still useable.  To rewind the data when using file saving version control, you would need to know the name of the file you wanted to revert to which is possible but not as intuitive as the process in GitHub. 

  In summary, file saving version control can be used for single developer tasks however, the functionality and ease of use that you get when using GitHub as a version control system is far superior for tasks both large and small. 

